---
title: The PHP Developer Stack for Building Chatbots
categories: chatbots
summary: On July 19th 20:00 CEST, I will join a Nomad PHP meeting to talk about `The PHP Developer Stack for Building Chatbots`. I am super excited to present my new talk, and I want to tell you a little bit more about it.
published: true
preview_image: images/blog/headers/blog_header_chatbot_stack.png
preview_image_twitter: images/blog/headers/blog_header_chatbot_stack_twitter.png
---

## The Abstract

Facebook Messenger, WhatsApp, WeChat, Skype, and Telegram have more than three billion active users combined! This led messenger platforms to open their doors for application development on their chats and started the rise of these applications. We all know them today as chatbots.
<br /><br />
Chatbots are much more than a hype. They change the way we communicate with companies and are bringing customer support and personalization to a new level. But what does the technology behind look like?
<br /><br />
In this talk, I will show you all the tools it takes to build a chatbot in PHP. You will see what it’s like developing and testing chatbots for multiple platforms and how NLP (Natural Language Processing) services can help you to understand the user.

## Why I Have Chosen This Topic?

The last year I have been doing quite some general talks about chatbots. I wanted to show people why this topic is so important right now and to give them great insights and examples from my experiences. People seemed to enjoy these talks, and I received excellent feedback. Still, I wasn't able to go into details about developing chatbots. I want to change this with this new talk.

## Who This Talk Is For

This talk is for developers! It will contain everything you need to know about chatbot development and will show you what technologies are involved in building them. We will look at each of them in detail and bring them together. `If you are a developer and interested in chatbots, then this talk is for you!`

## What It Will Cover

* what it takes to build a chatbot
* why PHP is a perfect fit for building chatbots
* how chatbot frameworks can help us
* what messengers provide for creating chatbot apps
* what NLP is and how we can use it
* testing chatbots

## How To Join This Talk

As mentioned before, I will present this new talk at a [Nomad PHP](https://nomadphp.com/the-php-developer-stack-for-building-chatbots/) online meetup. So you can watch it from home or wherever you are :-) It will cost $19.95, and you will get an hour of best chatbot development insights. Get your ticket [here](https://nomadphp.com/the-php-developer-stack-for-building-chatbots/), and I hope to see you there. 
