---
title: What GDPR means for my chatbots
category: chatbots
summary:
---

- what GDPR means and who it is for
- what does it mean for my bots
- example NL bot

CLAIM !!!
The fine print: This GDPR Guide is for informational purposes only. It is not legal advice. Please reach out to your legal counsel to receive tailored guidance on how the GDPR may impact your business.

## General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)

GDPR standardizes data protection law in the European Union. It defines how `E.U. citizans' data must be handled` and will `gain regulatory on the 25th of May 2018`. It will affect businesses of all sizes and no matter where they are located. Everyone handling E.U. citizens' data will be bound to the GDPR's rules. Abuses will lead to big fines up to four percentage of a company's revenue, which is why this topic should be taken very seriously.

But don't panic! Besides everything that is changing, it will help people to get control back over their information. GDPR will help use to provide more data protection world-wide. This is a good and important step.

## What is Changing?

- a lot of details
- personal data definition
- accountability
- check these resources
- article not about that

## Back to Chatbots

- clarification
- processing only after consent
- right to see saved data
- right to delete data
- process agreement with third parties

There are two main questions you need to think of:

* Are You Storing Personal Data?
* Are You Sharing Personal Data With Someone Else?

Before we look at these questions in more detail, let's make sure what what is meant by `Personal Data`. It refers to any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person. This is includes any identifiers such as name, identification number, location data, email address, photo, bank details, medical information or IP address.

## Are You Storing Personal Data?

If the answer is no, you can move on to the next point. Otherwise, start writing down all the information you are storing and its purpose. It's a good idea to already create a document now, because GDPR demands you to have one prepared.

You are allowed to process data for the following reasons:

* User has given consent
* Processing is necessary for the performance of a contract (e.g. store address in order to ship product)
* Processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation (e.g. Accounting)
* Processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest 
* Processing is necessary for vital interests (e.g. transferring medical data)

Here it gets a little bit tricky and blurry. A chatbot is a personalized and conversational interface. It needs the user's data in order to provide this personalized experience. Theoretically, we could say chatbots need to process the user's information in order to work properly. This leads to the question if we're actually need the user's consent. From my research, I didn't find any answer to that question. The easiest way here, is to just ask the user and to get his consent. But this also depends on your chatbot and how it is used.

## Are You Sharing Personal Data With Someone Else?

The GDPR distinguishes between the `data controller` and the `data processor`. The data controller determines the purpose and means of the processing of the personal data. The data processor processes this data. It gets much easier looking at an example. On my blog I collect emails for my personal newsletter. I use MailChimp to store the subscribers and to send out the newsletters. In this case, I am the data controller because I decide what to collect and what happens with the data. MailChimp is the data processor.

As a data controller, I need to make sure my data processors are GDPR compliant. This is done by a `data processing agreement`. Yeah that's right. You need such an agreement for every data processor you work with. Here is a short list of services you might already make usage of:

* Provider (DigitalOcean, Linode, etc.)
* Analytic Tools (Google Analytics, etc.)
* Email Marketing (MailChimp, Campaign Monitor etc.)
 

- example fb bot, you're not storing anything
-> still data processing?
-> do I need any contract with fb?

- example fb bot, you're storing user data
-> you need to inform the user upfront
-> still allowed or not because no real reason?

- same example but you only store minimal data for sending messages / newsletter
-> you need to inform the user upfront






