---
title: My Coding Year 2018
categories:
summary: "Another year has come to an end and it is time for my traditional New Year's Eve blog post. I want to take some minutes to think back about the last 12 months and how they changed me as a developer."
published: false
---

## Resolutions from 2017

Here are my resolutions from 2017. I do not treat them as my main goals for a year, but I think it's good to start with a little plan or direction. It doesn't matter if not everything works out as planned. That's life :-)

* Find out how I want to work
* Find a job or create my own one
* Take the risk if there is a chance to make a dream come true
* Become a Laracon conference speaker

### Find Out How I Want To Work

The end of 2017 was also the end my last job. I needed a change and to try something new or at least different. Back then, I didn't knew what that was and where this could lead me. Pretty soon it was clear to me that I wanted to work from home. I wanted to decide myself how and when to work and this only works if I work remote.

### Find a Job Or Create My Own One

It was really interesting to see how many companies were, and are still, looking for programmers. It's a good time as a developer right now, because you can easily find a new job. I had some interviews with great companies, but it didn't felt enough to just switch company. I soon realized, it was the perfect time to try something on my own. You can read more about this decision in my article XXX ARTICLE XXX.

So I have my own little one-man company for six months now

### Take The Risk If There Is a Chance to Make a Dream Come True

This goal was about creating a SaaA application and to try my a living from it. It is still a dream of myself to make this happen one day, but first I need a good idea for the application :-)

### Become a Laracon Conference Speaker

Sadly, I didn't achieved this goal. I attended the conference, and I was speaking at the Unconference Track, but not as main speaker. Maybe I wasn't ready for this challenge, but I will try again next year. I still improved a lot as a speaker and wrote a separated blog article just about XXX My Speaker Year 2018 XXXX.

## My First Ebook

You probably already know that I released my first ebook called [Build Chatbots with PHP]() this year. It was released on the 12th on June and it was my first real product. I am selling it on my store and it was a hell of an experience. I have learned so much while writing and publishing it. It also helped me to promote myself even more as a chatbot specialist.

Financially, it wasn't a success. I spent endless hours on writing this 200 pages ebook and also on creating the additional video course. Chatbots are still a niche-topic and sales were much less than expected. Still, I don't regret writing it. The experience is much more worth than money can be.

## My First Video Course

As already mentioned, you can buy my book with my first video course. In the videos I explain how I built the Laracon EU chatbot and it is a great start for chatbot development.

It is quite challenging recording such videos. I now respect teachers like Jeffrey Way or Adam Wathan even more. The quality of their videos is just insane and hard to keep up with. Additionally, speaking in a foreign language doesn't make your recordings easier. My english ok, but far from I want it to be. Especially, when you're teaching every used word is import and can make a difference.

## Freelancing

Next to my own products, I do freelancing now. It is important, because my products don't bring much money into my company. But I never was a big fan of freelancing. You need to marketing to find clients and with every new client you have to start again:

* getting to know each other
* learn about how the company works
* new people to communicate
* etc.

