---
title: The BotMan WebDriver explained
category: Chatbots
summary: The WebDriver is one of the best features about the BotMan library. Still I see a lot of people struggling with the concept and how to use it. Let's clear things up and let me show you how I already used this driver in production.
---

## There is more than messengers

Messengers are great for building chatbots. They provide you with a nice well tested chat-interface and an API to integrate your application. It is by far the easiest way to setup up your first little digital assistant.
<br /><br />
But messengers are not the only way to use a chatbot. You can also integrate it to your website. There it could help users to find what they are looking for or to provide services right away. On your website you also have full control over the data flow. No information has to be sent to companies like Facebook or Microsoft. You decide what happens to the data. So why don't we see much more of these chatbot integrations? Because it takes a lot of effort! If there was only something that could help you with that problem...

## Wouldn't it be nice if

So what do we need in order to make that task easier? We need a kind of API that our website bot can talk too. But we also need a solution that works with other channels. This is the only way we can stick to the same codebase. So the best solution would be a BotMan driver, like the one for Facebook or Telegram, but for websites.

## WebDriver to the rescue

This is exactly what the WebDriver is! But how do I know? Just because I built it! Ok not the one we use today, but the [first draft](https://github.com/botman/botman/pull/255). Marcel improved it a lot and now it is a big part of the BotMan family. Guess I am little bit proud here :-) But back to the topic.
<br /><br />
The WebDriver is very much like the other drivers. Here are some of the questions I get a lot.

### What is the WebDriver for

Like mentioned before, you can use this driver to integrate a bot on a website or app. Similar to the other drivers, your application contains the logic of the bot and the driver is the interface to the front-end part.

